Rules
Perfect Rulebook 2015
Perfect Rulebook 2017
Japanese Rulebook
Double Summon List
Conjunctions

Contents
2. Card Types
200.	General
201.	Monster
202.	Main Deck Monster (Unofficial term)
202.6.	Effect 
202.7.	Flip
202.8.	Gemini
202.9.	Normal
202.10.	Pendulum
202.11.	Ritual
202.12.	Spirit
202.13.	Toon
202.14.	Tuner
202.15.	Union
202.16.	Special Summon
203.	Extra Deck Monster (Unofficial term)
203.5.	Fusion
203.6.	Link
203.7.	Synchro
203.8.	Xyz
204.	Spell
205.	Continuous Spell
206.	Equip Spell
207.	Field Spell
208.	Normal Spell
209.	Quick-Play Spell
210.	Ritual Spell
211.	Trap
212.	Continuous Trap
213.	Counter Trap
214.	Normal Trap
3. Turns
300.	General
301.	Draw Phase
302.	Main Phase
303.	Battle Phase
304.	Start Step
305.	Battle Step
306.	Damage Step
307.	Start of the Damage Step
308.	Before Damage Calculation
309.	Damage Calculation
310.	After Damage Calculation
311.	End of the Damage Step
312.	End Step
313.	End Phase
4. Zones and locations
400.	General
5. Effects
500.	Activating
501.	Activating cards
502.	Activated effects
503.	Ignition effects
504.	Fast effects
505.	Trigger effects
506.	Continuous effects
6. Summons
600.	General
601.	Normal/Tribute Summon
602.	Flip Summon
603.	Special Summon
604.	Fusion Summon
605.	Link Summon
606.	Pendulum Summon
607.	Synchro Summon
608.	Xyz Summon



2. Card Types

200. General

200.1.	The card types are Monster, Spell and Trap.

200.2.	A card can change card type during a duel. The only times this occurs is when a Pendulum Monster is placed in a Pendulum Zone and by card effects.

200.3.	Cards can have multiple card types at the same time (see trap monsters TODO) but this additional types can only be gained by effect and that effect specifies that the added type is not removed.

200.2a.	The card will have the new type as long as it’s on the field and the card or effect that added it is still applying

200.2b.	These cards are subject to cards and effects that affect either of those types.

201. Monster

201.1.	Monsters have 1 Type.

201.1a.	The Type can be found at the top left of the effect box, inside the first square brackets. All other words inside bracket next to the Type are abilities of the card. (See 01.5 for abilities)

201.1b.	When a card refers to “Type” in its card text it refers to these Type unless it specifies otherwise.

201.1c.	The Type are the following: Aqua, Beast, Beast-Warrior, Cyberse, Dinosaur, Divine-Beast, Dragon, Fairy, Fiend, Fish, Illusion, Insect, Machine, Plant, Psychic, Pyro, Reptile, Rock, Sea Serpent, Spellcaster, Thunder, Warrior, Winged Beast, Wyrm, and Zombie. TODO

201.2.	Monsters have an Attribute that can be one of the following: DARK, DIVINE, EARTH, FIRE, LIGHT, WATER and WIND. TODO 

201.3.	Monsters have attack points (ATK) and a defense points (DEF) (The values in the lower right corner of the card) except Link monsters that only have ATK. (See Link TODO) TODO ??? ATK

201.4.	Monsters have a Level, a Rank or a LINK rating depending on their abilities.

201.4a.	An XYZ Monster has a Rank.

201.4b.	A Link Monster has a LINK rating.

201.4c.	Every other Monster has a level.

201.5.	Monsters have can have any number of abilities but they have at least 1.

201.5a.	The abilities can be found at the top left of the effect box, after the first square bracket. All words in the square brackets are abilities of the monster, the first bracket indicate the Type. (See 01.1b for Type) (Change the name of summon from abilities to something else TODO)

201.5b.	Fusion, Link, Synchro and Xyz monsters reside in the Extra Deck while the rest in the Main Deck.

201.5c.	The abilities are the following: Effect, Flip, Fusion, Gemini, Link, Normal, Pendulum, Ritual, Spirit, Synchro, Toon, Tuner, Union, Xyz.

201.5d.	In the OCG there is an extra ability called Special Summon Monster.
Ruling163

201.6.	Monsters can attack and be attacked. (battle TODO)

201.7.	Monsters do not get destroyed if their ATK and/or DEF goes to 0.

201.8.	While on the field a monster can be in 3 different positions: face-up attack, face-up defense and face-down defense.

201.8a.	During the Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and the turn player has priority they can change the position of a monster on their field. A Monster if face-up attack position is changed to face-down defense position. 

201.8b.	A Monster if face-up defense position is changed to face-up attack position. A monster in face-down defense position is changed to face-up attack position, this is considered a Flip Summon. (See Flip TODO)

201.8c.	A Monster’s position can be changed only if it was on the field since the start of the current turn, if it hasn’t attacked since the start of the current turn and its position hasn’t been changed since the start of the current turn. (Maybe to be moved somewhere else)

201.8d.	While in face-up attack it’s placed vertically in a monster zone with the front of the card facing up. Only face-up attack position monster can attack. 

201.8e.	While in face-up defense it’s placed horizontally in a monster zone with the front of the card facing up.

201.8f.	While in face-down defense it’s placed horizontally in a monster zone with the front of the card facing down. All the characteristics of the card are known only to the controller of the card.

202. Main Deck Monster (Unofficial term) (TODO: remove Main/Extra monster and separate each ability)

202.1.	A Main Deck Monster is a monster that resides in the Main Deck at the start of the duel, they are Monsters with only the following abilities: Effect, Flip, Gemini, Normal, Pendulum, Ritual, Spirit, Toon, Tuner, Union. The OCG Special Summon Monster is included here. If a Monster has an ability not mentioned here it’s an Extra Deck Monster. 

202.2.	The border of the card is Orange/Brown for every Main Deck Monster except for Normal Monsters with a Yellow/Brown border, Ritual Monsters with a Light Blue border and Pendulum Monsters with Green (The same as Spell Cards) on the bottom that fades to another color on the top depending on the other abilities of the card.

202.3.	All Main Deck Monsters have a Level from 1 to 12 and no Rank or LINK Rating. During a duel if the Level changes there is no limit on how high the level can be but cannot go lower than 1 (See Levels TODO)

202.4.	Except for Ritual and Special Summon Monsters the turn player can Normal/Tribute Summoned or Normal/Tribute Set a Main Deck Monster from the hand during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority. (See Normal Summon TODO)

202.5.	Some abilities have an effect in the way the Monster works or interacts with other cards. Here are what each Main Deck Monster ability does.

202.6.	Effect

202.6a.	An Effect Monster is any Monster that has an effect, this includes effect printed on the card and effects that are written because of other abilities, for example Spirit.

202.6b.	A Monster that doesn’t have this ability is a Non-Effect Monster.

202.7.	Flip

202.7a.	A Flip Monster has an effect that activates when from face-down defense position is flipped to face-up attack or face-up defense position.

202.7b.	The effect can activate if was flipped manually by a player, (See 01.8a) flipped as a result of battle (See Battle TODO) or flipped by an effect.

202.8.	Gemini

202.8a.	Gemini Monster are treated as Normal Monsters while they are on the field or in the Graveyard.

202.8b.	While a Gemini Monster is treated as a Normal Monsters it doesn’t have any effect.

202.8c.	While a Gemini Monster treated as a Normal Monster is on the field if that monster’s controller is the turn player during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority they can be Normal Summoned again.

202.8d.	When a Gemini Monster is Normal Summoned a second time while they are treated as a Normal Monster on the field they become an Effect Monsters and gain the effects written on the card.

202.8e.	During the Summon Negation Window of the second Normal Summon of a Gemini Monster the Monster isn’t on the field.

202.8f.	A player can Normal Summon a Gemini Monster a second time during the turn that it was Summoned to the field as long as that player hasn’t used all Normal/Tribute Summons available during that turn.

202.8g.	To Normal Summon a Level 5 or higher Gemini Monster a second time, no Monster is required as Tribute.

202.8h.	A player cannot change the battle position of a Gemini Monster during the turn that it was Normal Summoned a second time, but a Gemini Monster can be Normal Summoned a second time during a turn where its battle position was changed.

202.8i.	If the effects of a Gemini Monster that gained its effects are negated, the Gemini Monster is still treated as being an Effect Monster and cannot be Normal Summoned again to gain the effects.

202.8j.	This summon follows the normal rules of Normal Summoning. (See Normal Summon TODO)

202.9.	Normal

202.9a.	The Normal ability has no direct effect on gameplay.

202.9b.	A Normal Monster is considered to be a Non-Effect Monster. (See Something TODO)

202.9c.	A Normal Monster’s border is Yellow/Brown.

202.10.	Pendulum

202.10a.	 A Pendulum Monster can be activated as a Spell from the hand by the turn player during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

202.10b.	A Pendulum Monster activated as a Spell can only be placed in the rightmost or leftmost Spell/Trap Card Zone.

202.10c.	Activating a Pendulum Monster as a Spell is the same as activating a Spell that remains on the field after resolution like a Field Spell or a Continuous Spell.

202.10d.	A Pendulum Monster cannot be placed face-down in a Pendulum Zone.

202.10e.	When a Pendulum Monster is activated or places by an effect that specifically places in the Pendulum Zone in a Spell/Trap Card Zone that zone becomes a Pendulum Zone. (Maybe move to zone explanation TODO)

202.10f.	While it’s a Pendulum Zone it’s still a Spell/Trap Card Zone.

202.10g.	While a Spell/Trap Card Zone is treated as a Pendulum Zone in that zone there can only be a Pendulum Monster treated as a Spell.

202.10h.	If a Pendulum Monster treated as a Spell leaves the Pendulum Zone or stops being a Pendulum Spell the zone immediately returns to being a normal Spell/Trap Card Zone.

202.10i.	 If there is a card in the rightmost or leftmost Spell/Trap Card Zone a Pendulum card cannot be activated in that zone and if both Zones are occupied no Pendulum Monster can be placed. This applies if the card in the zone is a Pendulum Monster treated as a Spell and if there is any other card.

202.10j.	If a Pendulum Monster is sent to the Graveyard while it’s on the field it is sent to the Extra Deck face-up instead. This will happen if the Pendulum Monster is in the Pendulum Zone or if it’s in any other Zone on the field.

202.10k.	A Pendulum Monster sent from any other Zone to the Graveyard it will go to the Graveyard normally.

202.10m.	If a Pendulum Monster is sent to the Graveyard while it’s on the field and an effect that changes the destination of a card sent to the Graveyard, that Pendulum Monster will not go to the Extra Deck and instead be sent to that location.

•	Example: Macro Cosmos has the effect “While this card is face-up on the field, any card sent to the GY is banished instead.” While Macro Cosmos is face-up on the field all Pendulum Monsters sent from the field to the Graveyard will be banished and not be sent to the Extra Deck.

202.10n.	If the turn player controls 2 cards in their Pendulum Zones they can perform a Pendulum Summon.

202.11.	Ritual

202.11a.	 A Ritual Monster is a Special Summon Monster and the method to Properly Summon a Ritual Monster is a Ritual Summon.

202.11b.	A Ritual Monster’s border is Light Blue.

202.12.	Spirit

202.12a.	Spirit Monsters all have a shared effect to return themselves to the hand during the End Phase of the turn they were either Normal/Tribute Summoned or flipped face-up, or Special Summoned depending on the card.

202.12b.	Most Spirit Monsters Cannot be Special Summoned and will return to the hand if they were Normal/Tribute Summoned or flipped face-up.

202.12c.	Four cards (“Han-Shi Kyudo Spirit”, “Kai-Den Kendo Spirit”, “Kuro-Obi Karate Spirit” and “Yoko-Zuna Sumo Spirit”) Do not have the Restriction against Special Summon, but they will return to the hand in the same way.

202.12d.	Most other Spirit Monsters Cannot be Normal/Tribute Summoned or Normal/Tribute Set and will return to the hand if they were Special Summoned.

202.12e.	One card: “Amaterasu” Cannot be Normal/Tribute Summoned or Special Summoned and will return to the hand if it was flipped face-up.

202.13.	Toon

202.13a.	The Toon has no consistent effect on gameplay, every Toon card behaves differently and is connected only by name and the “Toon” archetype.

202.14.	Tuner

202.14a.	Tuner Monsters are required to perform a Synchro Summon and Summon a Synchro Monster. (See Synchro Summon TODO)

202.15.	Union

202.15a.	 Union Monster have an effect that allows them to equip themselves to a Monster or unequip themselves and Special Summon themselves.

202.15b.	To activate the effect to equip themselves they must be a Monster in the Monster Zone and there must be a legal Monster that they can equip themselves to, the turn player during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority can activate the effect of their Union Monster to equip itself to another Monster.

202.15c.	Some Union Monster have a specific requirement for the Monster they equip themselves to, if so it is written on the card.

202.15d.	This effect changes the type of the card from Monster to an Equip Spell, it is no longer a Monster but is still a Monster Card.

202.15e.	To activate the effect to Special Summon themselves they must be an Equip Spell in the Monster Zone equipped to a Monster in the field, the turn player during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority can activate the effect of the Union Monster equipped to a Monster to Special Summon.

202.15f.	This effect changes the type of the card from Equip Spell to Monster, it is no longer an Equip Spell.

202.15g.	Both of these effects are part of the same effect, and it is Once per turn.

202.15h.	 Some Union Monster have written “(A monster can only be equipped with 1 Union monster at a time. If the equipped monster would be destroyed [“by battle”, “as a result of battle”, “by card effect”], destroy this card instead.)”, this is not an effect.

202.15i.	While you control a Monster equipped with a Union Monster with that text you cannot attempt to equip another Union Monster to it.
Ruling6281 

202.15j.	While you control a Monster equipped with a Union Monster without that text you can attempt to equip a Union Monster without that text but not a Union Monster with that text.
Ruling19487

202.16.	Special Summon

202.16a.	A Special Summon Monster cannot be Normal/Tribute Summoned or Normal/Tribute Set. They are Fusion, Link, Ritual, Synchro, Xyz, Tokens and Main Deck Monsters with the text “Cannot be Normal Summoned/Set.”.

202.16b.	Even if not written on the card all Special Summon Monsters cannot be Normal Summoned/Set

202.16c.	The only ways to Special Summon a Special Summon Monster is to use the correct Summoning Procedure depending on the card (Fusion, Link, Ritual, Synchro or Xyz Summon) has or the one written on the card (this is the way to “Properly Special Summon” a Special Summon Monster) or to Special Summon a Special Summon Monster from the Graveyard or Banishment that was previously Properly Special Summoned and sent there. 

202.16d.	If the text of the card contains “Must be Special Summoned by a card effect”  that Monster can be Special Summoned by other effect but cannot be Special Summoned by something that is not an effect like a Pendulum Summon.
Ruling16780

202.16e.	If the text of the card contains “Must be [Summon Procedure]” and not “Must first be [Summon Procedure]“ that Monster cannot be Special Summoned by other effect even after they are Properly Special Summoned. Some older cards may have written “Must be [Summon Procedure], and cannot be Special Summoned by other ways” or “This card cannot be Special Summoned except by [Summon Procedure]”, these mean the exact same thing.

202.16f.	A Token can only be Special Summoned by the effect that created it, so it cannot be Special Summoned by other effects even if it was Properly Special Summoned.
JRulebook66 (Not the right link TODO)

•	Example: If a Token is put into the Spell/Trap Card Zone by Sinful Spoils of Subversion - Snake-Eye that says “Target 1 face-up monster on the field; place it face-up in its owner's Spell & Trap Zone as a Continuous Spell.” It cannot be Special Summoned by an effect such as the 3rd effect of Divine Temple of the Snake-Eye “Once per turn, if your opponent Normal or Special Summons a monster(s) (except during the Damage Step): You can target 1 Monster Card on the field treated as a Continuous Spell; Special Summon it to your field.”. TODO source

202.16g.	Three cards (“Blue Mountain Butterspy”, “Fenrir the Nordic Wolf” and “Jormungardr the Nordic Serpent”) are Special Summon Monsters but don’t have any restriction on how they can be summoned.

202.16h.	If a Special Summon Monster that was Properly Summoned is moved to a non-public knowledge location, it will lose its Properly Summoned status. Flipping face-down and banishing face-down do not remove this status.

203. Extra Deck Monster (Unofficial term)

203.1.	An Extra Deck Monster is a Monster that resides in the Extra Deck at the start of the duel, they are Monsters with the following abilities: Fusion, Link, Synchro, Xyz. They can also have other abilities but if they do they are not considered Main Deck Monsters.

203.2.	Extra Deck Monsters cannot be Normal/Tribute Summoned or Normal/Tribute.

203.3.	All Extra Deck Monsters are Special Summon Monsters.

203.4.	If an Extra Deck Monster has only his materials written in the text box it is a Non-Effect Monster.

203.5.	Fusion

203.5a.	Fusion Monsters are Special Summon Monsters and the method to Properly Summon a Fusion Monster is a Fusion Summon.

203.5b.	A Fusion Monster has a Level from 1 to 12 and doesn’t have a Rank or a LINK Rating. During a duel if the Level changes there is no limit on how high the level can be but cannot go lower than 1 (See Levels TODO)

203.5c.	A Fusion Monster’s border is Violet.

203.5d.	A Fusion Pendulum Monster that is face-up in the Extra Deck cannot be Fusion Summoned.

203.6.	Link

203.6a.	Link Monsters are Special Summon Monsters and the method to Properly Summon a Link Monster is a Link Summon.

203.6b.	Link Monsters have a LINK Rating from 1 to 8 and don’t have a Level or a Rank.

203.6c.	Link Monsters do not have DEF and can only be in face-up attack position while on the field.

203.6d.	A Link Monster has a number of arrow on the border of its art equal to its LINK Rating.

203.6e.	The possible Link Monster’s arrows direction are: UP, UP/RIGHT, RIGHT, DOWN/RIGHT, DOWN, DOWN/LEFT, LEFT, UP/LEFT.

203.6f.	A Link Monster’s Arrow points to a Zone that is adjacent in the direction of the arrow.

203.6g.	A Link Monster’s Arrows can only point to Monster Zones, they cannot point to Spell/Trap card Zones, the Field Spell Zone, the Graveyard, the Banishment, the Main Deck or the Extra Deck.

203.6h.	A Link Monster’s Arrows can point to opponent’s Zones and Monsters.

203.6i.	A Link Monster in the Main Monster Zones can point to the Extra Monster Zone with Arrows pointing UP/LEFT, UP and/or UP/RIGHT, but it cannot point to any opponent’s Main Monster Zone.

203.6j.	A Link Monster in the Extra Monster Zone can point to its owner’s Main Monster Zones with Arrows pointing DOWN/LEFT, DOWN and/or DOWN/RIGHT and it can point to its owner’s opponent’s Main Monster Zones with Arrows pointing UP/LEFT, UP and/or UP/RIGHT, but it cannot point to the other Extra Monster Zone.
 
203.6k.	A Monster is Linked if it’s a Link Monster and one of its Arrows points to another Monster on the field.

203.6m.	A Monster is Linked if a Link Monster’s Arrow points to it.

203.6n.	2 Monsters are Co-Linked if both of them are Link Monsters and they both point to each other.

203.6o.	If an effect would change the position of a Link Monster nothing happens.

203.6p.	A player cannot activate an effect if that effect would change the position of only Link Monsters.

203.6q.	A player cannot target a Link Monster with an effect that would change its position.

203.6r.	A Link Monster cannot be used as material for a Synchro Summon or an Xyz Summon as Link Monsters do not have a Level. Link Monsters can be used as material for a Fusion Summon or a Link Summon.

203.6s.	A Link Monster’s border is Dark Blue with a hexagonal pattern.

203.7.	Synchro

203.7a.	Synchro Monsters are Special Summon Monsters and the method to Properly Summon a Synchro Monster is a Synchro Summon.

203.7b.	A Synchro Monster has a Level from 1 to 12 and doesn’t have a Rank or a LINK Rating. During a duel if the Level changes there is no limit on how high the level can be but cannot go lower than 1 (See Levels TODO)

203.8.	Xyz

203.8a.	Xyz Monsters are Special Summon Monsters and the method to Properly Summon an Xyz Monster is an Xyz Summon.

203.8b.	An Xyz Monster has a Rank from 1 to 13 and doesn’t have a Level or a LINK Rating.

03.8c.	An Xyz Monster cannot be used as material for a Synchro Summon or an Xyz Summon as Xyz Monsters do not have a Level. Xyz Monsters can be used as material for a Fusion Summon or a Link Summon.

204. Spell

204.1.	There are 6 types of Spells: Continuous, Equip, Field, Normal, Quick-Play, Ritual.

204.2.	Activating a Spell Card or an effect of Spell Card is Spell Speed 1.

204.3.	The turn player can activate a Spell Card during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

204.4.	To activate a Spell Card, the player activating it places that Spell Card face-up in an unoccupied Spell/Trap Zone from their hand OR flips a face-down Spell Card in their Spell/Trap Zone face-up into the same zone.

204.5.	The turn player can set a Spell Card during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

204.6.	To set a Spell Card, the player setting it places that Spell Card face-down in an unoccupied Spell/Trap Zone from their hand.

205. Continuous Spell

205.1.	A Continuous Spell Card has an infinity symbol next to the words “Spell Card”.

205.2.	A Continuous Spell Card remains on the field after being activated.

205.3.	If the activation of a Continuous Spell Card is negated, the Continuous Spell Card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.

205.4.	If a Continuous Spell Card is removed from the field before an effect of that card on the field resolves, that effect will not resolve. This does not apply if it’s removed to pay for the cost to activate itself or one of its effects.

206. Equip Spell

206.1.	An Equip Spell Card has a plus symbol next to the words “Spell Card”.

206.2.	An Equip Spell Card remains on the field after being activated.

206.3.	If the activation of an Equip Spell Card is negated, the Equip Spell Card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.

206.4.	When activating an Equip Spell the player activating it Targets a Monster on the field to be equipped to. If an Equip Spell Card has an effect on activation that Equips itself to a monster as part of the effect, the player activating it doesn’t Target a monster on the field to be equipped to.

•	Example: If Mikanko Fire Dance that says” Special Summon 1 "Mikanko" monster from your hand or GY, and if you do, equip it with this card“ is activated, the player activating it does not need to Target any Monster on the field.

206.4.	After a Chain resolves, if an Equip Spell that was activated during that chain is not equipped to a Monster, that Spell is sent to the Graveyard.

206.5.	If the Monster with an Equip Spell Card equipped to it leaves the field or is used as material for an Xyz Summon, the Equip Spell is destroyed. The Monster leaving the field and the Equip Spell Card being destroyed occur simultaneously. The Equip Spell Card is not considered to be destroyed by a card effect.

206.6.	If an Equip Spell Card is removed from the field before an effect of that card on the field resolves, that effect will not resolve. This does not apply if it’s removed to pay for the cost to activate itself or one of its effects.

207. Field Spell

207.1.	A Field Spell Card has a 4-point star symbol next to the words “Spell Card”.

207.2.	A Field Spell Card remains on the field after being activated.

207.3.	If the activation of a Field Spell Card is negated, the Field Spell Card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.

207.4.	A Field Spell is placed in the Field Zone when activated or set instead of the Spell/Trap Zone.

207.5.	If a player’s Field Zone is occupied by a Field Spell, that player can still activate or set a Field Spell from their hand, if they do they send the card in the Field Zone to the Graveyard then they activate or set the Field Spell in their hand. Sending the card in the Field Zone to the Graveyard is not a cost. Sending the card to the Graveyard and activating or setting the Field Spell occur sequentially.

207.6.	If a Field Spell Card is removed from the field before an effect of that card on the field resolves, that effect will not resolve. This does not apply if it’s removed to pay for the cost to activate itself or one of its effects.

208. Normal Spell

208.1.	A Normal Spell Card doesn’t have any symbol next to the words “Spell Card”.

208.2.	A Normal Spell Card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.

209. Quick-Play Spell

208.1.	A Quick-Play Spell Card has a lightning bolt symbol next to the words “Spell Card”.

208.2.	A Quick-Play Spell Card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.

208.3.	Activating a Quick-Play Spell is Spell Speed 2. The effects of Quick-Play Spells are Spell Speed 1.

208.4.	The turn player can activate a Quick-Play Spell Card from their hand during their turn whenever they have priority. 

208.5.	Quick-Play Spells cannot be activated the turn they are set.

208.6.	The turn player can activate a Quick-Play Spell Card set in their Spell/Trap Zone at any point whenever they have priority.

209. Ritual Spell

209.1.	A Ritual Spell Card has a flaming chalice symbol next to the words “Spell Card”.

209.2.	A Ritual Spell Card is a card that includes an effect that performs a Ritual Summon. Apart from this they work the same way as Normal Spell Cards.

210. Trap

210.1.	There are 3 types of Traps: Continuous, Counter, Normal.

210.2.	Activating a Spell Card or an effect of Spell Card is Spell Speed 2.

210.3.	Trap Cards cannot be activated the turn they are set.

210.4.	The turn player can activate a Trap Card set in their Spell/Trap Zone at any point whenever they have priority.

210.5.	To activate a Trap Card, flips a face-down Trap Card in their Spell/Trap Zone face-up into the same zone.

210.6.	The turn player can set a Trap Card during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

210.7.	To set a Trap Card, the player setting it places that Trap Card face-down in an unoccupied Spell/Trap Zone from their hand.

211. Continuous Trap

211.1.	A Continuous Trap Card has an infinity symbol next to the words “Trap Card”.

211.2.	A Continuous Trap Card remains on the field after being activated.

211.3.	If the activation of a Continuous Trap Card is negated, the Continuous Trap Card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.

211.4.	If a Continuous Trap Card is removed from the field before an effect of that card on the field resolves, that effect will not resolve. This does not apply if it’s removed to pay for the cost to activate itself or one of its effects.

212. Counter Trap

212.1.	A Counter Trap Card has an arrow symbol next to the words “Trap Card”.

212.2.	A Counter Trap Card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.

212.3.	Activating a Counter Trap is Spell Speed 3. The effects of Counter Traps are Spell Speed 2.

213. Normal Trap

213.1.	A Normal Trap Card doesn’t have any symbol next to the words “Trap Card”.

213.2.	A Normal Trap Card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.

3. Turns

300. General

300.1.	A turn is composed of 6 Phases: Draw, Standby, Main 1, Battle, Main 2, End. The Battle Phase and Main Phase 2 are the only Phases that can be skipped, all other phases are performed even if nothing happens during that Phase.

300.2.	A Phase or Steps ends if there is not a chain building or resolving, there are no mandatory effects that must be activated at that time, there are no delayed effects that need to be resolved, both players have passed priority once and they both agree to change phase.

300.3.	When a Phase or Steps ends, any effects that last “until end of the” that Phase or Steps stop applying. When an effect lasts “until the End Phase” it will stop applying at the end of the End Phase and not when the Phase starts.

300.4.	At the start of every Phase and Step the turn player has priority.

300.5.	Some effects allow a player to perform the Battle Phase twice.

300.5a.	If multiple effects allow a player to perform an additional Battle Phase only one extra Battle Phase can be performed.

300.5b.	If an effect that ends the Battle Phase is activated while the Battle Phase can be conducted twice only one of the Battle Phases ends and the second one can still be performed. There is 1 exception to this rule.

300.5c.	If the effect of “The Unhappy Maiden” is activated while the Battle Phase can be conducted twice the Battle Phase ends and the second on cannot be performed.

300.6.	Some effects can cause a step, phase, or turn to be skipped. To skip a step, phase, or turn is to proceed past it as though it didn’t exist.

300.7.	No game events can occur between steps, phases, or turns.

301. Draw Phase

301.1.	At the start of the Draw Phase the turn player draws a card. No cards or effects can be activated before the card is drawn unless specifically stated on a card or effect.

301.2.	During the first Draw Phase of the player who plays first that player does not draw a card, but the Draw Phase is still performed.

302. Main Phase

302.1.	There are 2 Main Phases in a turn. The first one is called Main Phase 1 and the second one is called Main Phase 2.

302.2.	The Main Phase 2 is only performed if the Battle Phase is performed and it must be performed if the Battle Phase is performed.

302.3.	The Main Phase is the only phase in which a player can set Spell/Traps from the hand, activate Normal/Ritual/Continuous/Field Spells, activate an ignition effect and perform a Normal/Tribute Set, Normal/Tribute Summon, Link Summon, Synchro Summon and Xyz Summon.

302.4.	During either Main Phase the turn player can perform a Normal/Tribute Summon/Set if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

302.5.	Some effects must be activated “at the start of the Main Phase [1/2]”. To be activated they must be the first action during that Phase.

303. Battle Phase

303.1.	The Battle Phase has 4 Steps: Start, Battle, Damage, End.

303.2.	The Damage Step is performed when an attack is declared and it’s not negated or stopped in any other way.

304. Start Step

304.1.	During the Start Step attack cannot be declared.

304.2.	During the Start Step effects that activate or resolve “at the Start of the Battle Phase” can be activated or resolved.

304.3.	After the Start Step ends the Battle Step begins. A player cannot proceed directly to the End Step.

305. Battle Step

305.1.	A player enters the Battle Step after the Start Step ends and after the Damage Step ends.

305.2.	During the Battle Step the turn player can declare an attack if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

305.3.	To declare an attack, the turn player chooses a face-up monster in attack position that they control that has not declared an attack this turn. If the non-turn player controls monsters they must choose a monster their opponent controls as the attack target, if they control no monsters they declare a direct attack

305.4.	Effect that trigger or can be activated when an attack is declared can only be activated in a chain immediately after the attack is declared.

305.5.	While a monster is attacking, if the legal targets that monster can attack changes a Battle Replay is triggered.

305.5a.	When a Battle Replay is triggered the player declaring the attack can choose to change the attack target to another legal target. This change is not considered to be declaring an attack.

305.5b.	If a Battle Replay is triggered and after that the attack targets change another Battle Replay is triggered. There is no limit to the number of Battle Replays that can occur on any attack.

305.5c.	If a monster is Summoned to the opponent’s field or a monster is removed the attack targets changes and a Battle Replay is triggered.

305.5d.	If a monster is Summoned to the opponent’s field and a monster is removed so the number of monster on the opponent field doesn’t change a Battle Replay is triggered.

305.5e.	If an effect makes a monster on the opponent’s field unable to be attacked or such an effect stops applying the attack target changes and a Battle Replay is triggered.

305.5f.	If an effect allows an attacking monster to attack directly or such an effect stops applying the attack targets changes and a Battle Replay is triggered. 

305.6.	If an attack is declared, there isn’t a chain forming or resolving and both players pass priority the Battle Step ends and the Damage Step Begins.

305.7.	After the Battle Step ends while no attack is currently occurring, the End Step Begins. 

306. Damage Step

306.1.	The Damage Step is divided in 5 parts: Start of the Damage Step, Before Damage Calculation, Damage Calculation, After Damage Calculation and End of the Damage Step.

306.2.	The Damage Step can only be reached when an attack is declared.

306.3.	During the Damage Step only the following types of effects can be activated: Counter Trap Cards, cards and effects that negate the activation of cards and/or effects, cards and effects that set, increase or decrease the ATK and/or DEF of monsters (only up until Before Damage Calculation), mandatory effects, Monster Effects that activate when flipped face-up and effects of cards that activate when that card itself is moved to a different zone.

306.4.	Once an attack has reached the Damage step the monster that declared the attacked is treated as “having attacked”, even if damage calculation is not performed.

306.5.	Effects that list a particular timing like “at the start of the Damage Step” or “during damage calculation” cannot be activated after other cards that activate in that timing finish resolving.

•	Example: If Dandylion is sent to the Graveyard during damage calculation by an activated effect and its effect that says “If this card is sent to the Graveyard: Special Summon 2 “Fluff Tokens” (Plant-Type/WIND/Level 1/ATK 0/DEF 0) in Defense Position” is activated, the effect of Injection Fairy Lily that says “If this card attacks or is attacked, during damage calculation (in either player’s turn): You can pay 2000 LP once per battle; this card gains 3000 ATK during that damage calculation only” cannot be activated in a chain after that other effect resolved as it specify a timing to be activated.

Example: If during the Start of the Damage Step the effect of Tenpai Dragon Chundra that says “At the start of the Damage Step, if a monster battles: You can Special Summon 1 Level 4 or lower FIRE Dragon monster from your Deck, except "Tenpai Dragon Chundra".” Is activated and Special Summons Tenpai Dragon Paidra, the effect that says “If this card is Normal or Special Summoned: You can add to your hand or Set 1 "Sangen" Spell/Trap from your Deck.” can be activated as it doesn’t specify a timing to be activated.

306.6.	During the Damage Step even if the number of legal attack target changes, a Battle Replay is not triggered.

307. Start of the Damage Step

307.1.	The Start of the Damage Step is the first part of the Damage Step.

307.2.	Effects that activate or resolve “At the start of the Damage Step” can be activated or resolved during the Start of the Damage Step (older cards that activate or resolve “without applying damage calculation” also activate during this part of the Damage Step).

307.3.	Effects that set, increase or decrease the ATK and/or DEF of monsters can still be activated during the Start of the Damage Step.

307.4.	After the Start of the Damage Step ends, the Before Damage Calculation part starts.

308. Before Damage Calculation

308.1.	Before Damage Calculation is the second part of the Damage Step and occurs after the Start of the Damage Step.

308.2.	If a face-down Monster battle it’s flipped to face-up Defense Position during this part, if that Monster has an effect that activated when it’s flipped face-up it does not activate yet. No cards or effect can be activated before the monster is flipped.

308.3.	Effects that activate or resolve “Before damage calculation” can be activated or resolved during Before Damage Calculation.

308.4.	Effects that set, increase or decrease the ATK and/or DEF of monsters can still be activated during Before Damage Calculation.

308.5.	After the Before Damage Calculation ends, the Damage Calculation part starts.

309. Damage Calculation

309.1.	Damage Calculation is the third part of the Damage Step and occurs after Before Damage Calculation.

309.2.	Effects that say they can be activated “during damage calculation” can be activated during Damage Calculation.

309.3.	If both player during Damage Calculation pass priority the damage calculation is performed.

309.4.	After damage is calculated during Damage Calculation, no cards or effects can be activated and After Damage Calculation immediately begin.

309.5.	Monsters marked for destruction by battle are not sent to the Graveyard until the End of the Damage Step, but the result of the battle is determined in that moment and does not change under any circumstance.

309.6.	If a monster marked for destruction by battle has a Continuous effect is stops applying immediately after it is marked for destruction.

309.7.	A monster marked for destruction by battle cannot be targeted by cards or effects until it is sent to the Graveyard at the End of the Damage Step.

309.8.	If an effect that says “if it would be destroyed, you can […] instead” is applied to a monster that would be marked for destruction by battle, it is not marked and will not be sent to the Graveyard during the End of the Damage Step.

309.9.	An effect that says “if it would be destroyed, you can […] instead” can be applied to a monster being marked for destruction by battle only during the Damage Calculation part of the Damage Step, and cannot be applied at any other times.

309.10.	While calculating damage during Damage Calculation if the attack target is in Attack Position compare the ATK of the attacking monster and the ATK of the attack target monster, the monster with the lower ATK is marked for destruction, also inflict damage equal to the difference to that monster’s controller. If the ATK is the same, no damage is inflicted and both monsters are destroyed at the end of that Damage Step. If the ATK of both monsters is 0, no damage is inflicted and neither monsters are marked for destruction.

309.11.	While calculating damage during Damage Calculation if the attack target is in Defense Position, compare the ATK of the attacking monster and the DEF of the attack target monster. If the ATK is higher, the monster with the lower DEF is marked for destruction. If the DEF is higher, the player who attacked takes damage equal to the difference. If the ATK and DEF are equal, no damage is inflicted and neither monster is destroyed.

309.12.	While calculating damage during Damage Calculation if the attack is a Direct Attack, inflict damage to the LP of the player that controls the attack target equal to the ATK of the attacking monster.

309.13.	If damage calculation is performed the monsters are considered as “having battled”. If damage calculation is not performed the monsters are not treated as “having battled”.

309.14.	The damage from effects that say “inflict battle damage” is not treated as effect damage, and it is treated as battle damage.

309.15.	Effects that set, increase or decrease the ATK and/or DEF of monsters cannot be activated during Damage Calculation.

309.16.	After the Damage Calculation ends, the After Damage Calculation part starts.

310. After Damage Calculation

310.1.	After Damage Calculation is the fourth part of the Damage Step and occurs after Damage Calculation.

310.2.	Effects that say they can be activated “after damage calculation”, “when it inflicts battle damage to the opponent”, “when/if it is flipped face-up” and Flip Effects can be activated during After Damage Calculation.

310.3.	After the After Damage Calculation ends, the End of the Damage Step part starts.

311. End of the Damage Step

311.1.	End of the Damage Step is the last part of the Damage Step and occurs after After Damage Calculation.

311.2.	At the start of the End if the Damage Step all monsters marked for destruction are sent to the Graveyard, no cards or effects can be activated before this.

311.3.	Effects that say they can be activated “when it is destroyed by battle and sent to the Graveyard” or “when it destroys an opponent’s monster by battle” can be activated during the End of the Damage Step.

311.4.	Effects that are applied “until the end of the Damage Step” are applied until the Damage Step ends.

311.5.	After the Damage Step ends, the Damage Step ends and the Battle Step begins.

312. End Step

312.1.	During the End Step attack cannot be declared.

312.2.	During the End Step effects that activate or resolve “at the end of the Battle Phase” can be activated or resolved.

312.3.	Effects that are applied “until the end of the Battle Phase” or “during the Battle Phase” are applied until the end of the End Step.

312.4.	After the End Step of the Battle Phase ends the Main Phase 2 begins. A player cannot skip directly to the End Phase and the Main Phase 2 must be entered even if no actions are performed.

313. End Phase

313.1.	The End Phase is the last Phase of a turn, and it can be entered from Main Phase 1 or 2.

313.2.	A Normal Spell Card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.When both players agree to end the End Phase if the turn player has more than 6 cards in their hand they must discard cards from their hand so that they only have 6 cards in hand. If after discarding the turn player has still more than 6 cards in hand due to a card or effect this process is repeated until there are 6 or less cards in hand. After this the turn immediately ends and no cards or effects can be activated.

313.3.	While discarding cards during the End Phase due to the turn player exceeding the maximum hand size no cards or effects can be activated except for cards or effect that trigger due to being discarded.

313.4.	Effects that say “until the end of the turn” are applied until the End Phase ends.

313.5.	After the End Phase ends, the turn immediately ends and the other player’s turn begins.

4. Zones and locations

400. General

400.1.	A Zone is the place a card or a token is while on the field, a card or a token on the field is always in a Zone. There are 5 types of Zones: Main Monster Zones, Extra Monster Zones, Spell/Trap Zones, Field Zone, Pendulum Zones.

400.2.	Locations are the places cards can be during a duel. There are 7 locations a card can be in: Main Deck, Extra Deck, Hand, Field, Graveyard, Banishment and attached to an Xyz Monster as Xyz Material.

400.3.	A public location is a location where every player can see the face of the cards or the Zone they occupy. The field, Graveyard, face-up Banishment and face-up Extra Deck are public locations. Private locations are locations where only the owner of the cards can look at the card’s faces. The Main Deck, hand, face-down banishment and face-down Extra Deck are private locations.

400.4.	If a card would go into a Main Deck, Extra Deck, hand, Graveyard or Banishment other than its owner’s, it goes to its owner’s corresponding location.

400.5.	A card that moved from one location to another becomes a new card.

5. Effects

501. Activating (TODO: maybe unite activating and activating an effect)

501.1.	A card or effect can only be activated when its activation conditions are met, after the card is activated even if the conditions are not met anymore it will still resolve.

501.2.	Activation legality

501.1a.	A card or effect can only be activated if all mandatory actions to be performed at activation can be performed, all mandatory parts of the effect can be performed and if performing those effects will result in a change in the state of the game.

501.1b.	An effect changes the state of the game if it performs one of the following actions: it changes the number of cards in the Main Deck, Extra Deck, hand, field, Graveyard or banishment; It flips a card in the Extra Deck, banishment of field from face-down position to face-up position and vice versal; it changes the battle position of a monster; it negates the effect or effects of a card; it modifies the ATK and/or DEF of a monster; it changes the Attribute and/or Types of a monster; it adds or removes an ability from a monster; it adds or removes an effect from a card; it makes a card unable to be activated, Summoned, Set, activated or used; It changes the rules of the duel either temporarily or permanently; it changes the LP of one or both players.  

501.1c.	All actions performed at activation do not count as effects that changes the state of the game.

501.1d.	The act of placing a Spell/Trap from the hand face-up on the field or flipping one from face-down to face-up while in the Spell/trap Zone or Field Zone to activate it and Normal, Quick-Play or Ritual Spells and Counter or Normal Traps being sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain they were activated in are not effects that change the state of the game, also if a card effect would prevent those cards from being sent to the Graveyard those cards can still be activated. 

501.1e.	If a Spell/Trap being activated has no effect on activation, has an effect that would not change the state of the board or has an optional effect at activation that cannot be performed, that card can still be activated even if at the moment of activation, it would not change the state of the board.

501.1f.	To activate a card or effect would perform multiple actions, every action must be able to be performed at activation and each effect has to affect the state of the game with the following 2 exceptions.

501.1g.	A card or effect that includes an effect to take control of a monster while there is no unoccupied Monster Zone for that monster to be placed in or an effect to Summon a monster to the field while there is no unoccupied Monster Zone for that monster to be Summoned in, can be activated if as part of an action performed at activation or an effect part of the resolution a valid Monster Zone becomes unoccupied.
Ruling15355

501.1h.	One card “Interrupted Kaiju Slumber” can be activated even if that player or their opponent control a “Kaiju” monster.

501.1i.	If a card effect makes a card(s) unable to be destroyed, banished, returned to the hand, returned to the deck, tribute or unaffected by some or all card effects, a card or effect that would try to perform one or more of those actions to one or more of those cards can still be activated even if at time of activation it would not change the state of the board.

501.1j.	If a card effect that changes the location a card(s) is moved to after that card(s) leaves another location is active, a card or effect that would try to move that card(s) from one location to another can still be activated even if at the moment of activation that card(s) would not be sent to the location specified in the effect.

•	Example: If a player controls a Floowandereeze & Robina with the effect “If this face-up card would leave the field, banish it instead.”, that player’s opponent can activate a Compulsory Evacuation Device with the effect “Target 1 monster on the field; return that target to the hand.” By targeting the Robina even though it will be banished and not returned to the hand.

501.1k.	If a card effect forbids a player from Normal/Tribute Summoning/Setting, Special Summoning, destroying, banishing, returning to the hand, returning to the deck or tributing, a card or effect that would try to perform one or more of those actions cannot be activated even if thanks to an action performed at activation or as part of one of the effect before that action that card effect would not be applying in the moment the forbidden action would be performed. (TODO: find example)

501.1l.	If a card effect makes it that a player can only activate a limited number of cards or effects that player cannot activate a card or effect if the number of card and effects activated while that effect was active exceeds the maximum number allowed. If the activation of a card or effect is negated it still counts toward the total. Only cards and effect activated while the card effect is active are counted towards the total.

501.3.	If the card or effect activated has actions to be performed at activation, (such as costs, targets, declaring card names/Attributes/Types and selecting which effect to activate) all actions must be performed in the order they are written. All mandatory actions must be performed, while any optional action can be performed. A player cannot perform an action in a way that would make the activation illegal or the resolution illegal, they also cannot perform an additional action or not perform one if doing or not doing so would make the activation or the resolution illegal. If by performing an action a later action that needs to be performed has more or less options the card can still be activated as long as there is at least one way to perform each action, also the new options to perform the action can be performed. If performing one or more actions to be performed at activation in some way would make following actions to be performed at activation impossible to be performed or it would make performing one or more actions performed at resolution result in no changes to the boardstate, that action cannot be performed in that way. (TODO: separate this in multiple points, add if shifter cannot sent to gy as cost)
 Ruling11724 Ruling17396

•	Example: If a player tries to activate Rikka Glamour which says “When you activate this card, you can also Tribute 1 Plant monster; add 1 "Rikka" monster from your Deck to your hand, then, if you Tributed a monster when you activated this card, add 1 Plant monste”, if they only have 1 Rikka monster in their Deck and no other Plant monsters they cannot choose to pay the additional cost to activate the card.

•	Example: If a player tries to activate Crusadia Vanguard which says “When you activate this card: You can also Tribute 1 "Crusadia" or "World Legacy" monster; if you did, Special Summon 1 "Crusadia" or "World Legacy" monster, with a different original name, from your Deck or GY.” While they have all Main Monster Zone occupied, they must pay the additional cost to activate the card. TODO: Example is wrong

•	Example: If a player controls a Daigusto Emeral while they have only 2 monster in their Graveyard and neither is a non-Effect Monster that player cannot activate the effect that says “Once per turn: You can detach 1 material from this card, then activate 1 of these effects; •︎ Target 3 monsters in your GY; shuffle all 3 into the Deck, then draw 1 card. •︎ Target 1 non-Effect Monster in your GY; Special Summon that target.” even if they can detach a monster or a non-effect monster. If a player has 2 monsters in the Graveyard and at least 1 is a non-Effect Monster, they can activate the effect as they can choose the “Target 1 non-Effect Monster in your GY” effect. If when detaching the material the detached material is a monster and it is sent to the Graveyard, as there are now 3 monsters in the Graveyard that player can choose the “Target 3 monsters in your GY” effect.

501.4.	If a card or effect provides an alternative way to pay for a cost the player chooses if they pay using the alternative method in the moment they need to pay the cost. If multiple cards or effect would allow a cost to be paid using an alternative method a player can only choose one of those methods. If a cost is paid using an alternative method the original cost is not paid but is still considered to have been paid. A player cannot use an alternative method to pay for a cost or not use it if by doing so it would make the activation illegal or it would put their Life Points to 0.

•	Example: If a player is trying to activate the effect of Ursarctic Megabilis that says “You can Tribute 1 other Level 7 or higher monster from your hand; Special Summon this card from your hand” while they control an Ursarctic Big Dipper that says “Once per turn, if your "Ursarctic" monster would Tribute a monster(s) to activate its effect, you can banish 1 Level 7 or higher "Ursarctic" monster from your GY instead.” And they have an Ursarctic Drytron in their Graveyard with the effect “If you would Tribute a monster(s) to activate an "Ursarctic" or "Drytron" monster's effect, you can banish this card from your GY instead.”, that player can choose to apply neither of these effects or either one but they cannot choose to apply both at the same time and if they choose to apply one of these alternative methods they do not tribute a monster from their hand.

•	Example: A player cannot activate Ballista Squad’s effect that says “Tribute 1 monster, then target 1 card your opponent controls; destroy it.” by tributing an opponent’s monster using the effect of Lair of Darkness that says “Once per turn, if you would Tribute a monster you control to activate a card effect, you can Tribute 1 DARK monster your opponent controls, even though you do not control it.” If the opponent control only that monster.

501.5.	If a card or effect adds an additional cost to be paid to activate that card those cost are paid before any other cost in any order (can’t find anything conclusive about this yet). If paying an additional cost would make the activation illegal or it would put a player’s Life Points to 0 that card or effect cannot be activated.

501.6.	After every cost is paid the card or effect is added to the Chain if there is currently no Chain, one is created. The card or effect’s Chain Link number is equal to the number of cards and effects currently on the Chain including that card or effect.

502. Activating cards

502.1.	Activating a card is the act of placing a Spell/Trap from the hand to the field or flipping it face-up and putting it on the Chain so that it may resolve and have its effects if any.

502.2.	To activate a card, the player places it from their hand face-up in an unoccupied Spell/Trap Zone or in a Field Zone or flips it from face-down to face-up while it is in a Spell/Trap Zone or in a Field Zone.

502.3.	When activating a card, an effect is also activated at the same time, it the card doesn’t have an effect at activation that effect will perform no actions at resolution. The activation of the card and the activation of the effect are on the same Chain Link. If the effect is negated the activation of the card is not negated, if the activation of the card is negated the effect is also negated.

502.4.	If the activation of a Continuous, Equip or Field Spell or a Continuous Trap is negated, that card is sent to the Graveyard at the end of the Chain it was activated in.

502.5.	A player can only activate card on their field that they control and the cards in their hand.

503. Activated effects

503.1.	Activating an effect is the act of declaring to activate an effect present om a card and putting it on the chain so that it may resolve and have its effect if any.

503.2.	Activated effects are written as “[Activation conditions (if any)]: [Actions at activations (if any)]; [Effect].”

503.2a.	If an effect has no colon or semi-colon it is not an activated effect with one exception. Spell/Trap effects that happen at activation may not have any activation conditions of actions at activations but they are still activated effect.
 
•	Example: Upstart Goblin has the effect “Draw 1 card, then your opponent gains 1000 LP:” this effect starts a chain even if it doesn’ have a colon or a semi-colon.”

503.2b.	If an effect has a colon but no semi-colon, it is an activated effect but it has no actions to be performed at activation.

503.2c.	If an effect has a semi-colon but no colon, it is an activated effect but has no activation conditions.

503.3.	Activated effects always activate on the field unless another location where they can be activated is specified in the Activation conditions or if the effect includes moving the card activating the effect from a location that is not the field to another location.

•	Example: the effect of Adamancipator Analyzer that says ”If only your opponent controls a monster: You can Special Summon this card from your hand.” can only be activated only while it’s in the hand even if that is not specified in the Activation conditions.

503.4.	An activated effect if an Ignition, Fast or Trigger effect.

504. Ignition effects

504.1.	Ignition effects are effects that can only be activated during that effect’s controller Main Phase while there is no Chain creating or resolving, it is not during a response window and that player has priority.

504.2.	Ignition effects are Spell Speed 1.

504.3.	Ignition effects can never be Chain Link 2.

504.4.	A monster’s activated effect is an Ignition effect if it doesn’t have any Activation conditions or if it’s Activation conditions include “During your Main Phase”. An activated effect is not an Ignition effect if it’s Activation conditions starts with “When” or “If”, or if it’s Activation conditions contain “(Quick Effect)”. Cards printed before Maximum Crisis: Special Edition instead of “(Quick Effect)” will have “During either player’s [turn, Phase, Step]” in the Activation conditions or “(this is a Quick Effect)” at the end of the effect, these wordings work in the same way.

504.5.	Activating a Spell Card except a Quick-Play Spell and activating a Spell effect that is not a Trigger effect are Ignition effects.

504.6.	Unless otherwise specified Ignition effects can be activated as many time as possible during a Main Phase.

505. Fast effects

505.1.	Fast effects are effects that can be activated at any time as long as there is not a Chain resolving and the player activating has priority.

505.2.	Fast effects are Spell Speed 2 except for activating a Counter Trap Card, which is Spell Speed 3.

505.3.	An activated effect is a Fast effect if its Activation conditions include “(Quick Effect)”. Cards printed before Maximum Crisis: Special Edition instead of “(Quick Effect)” will have “During either player’s [turn, Phase, Step]” in the Activation conditions or “(this is a Quick Effect)” at the end of the effect, these wordings work in the same way.

505.4.	Activating a Quick-Play Spell Card, activating a Trap Card and activating a Trap Effect that is not a Trigger effect are Fast effects.

506. Trigger effects

506.1.	Trigger effects are effect that can only be activated in the moment after a condition is met while there is not a Chain resolving and the player activating has priority.

506.2.	Trigger effects are Spell Speed 1.

506.3.	A monster’s activated effect is not a Trigger effect if the Activation conditions include “(Quick Effect)”. Cards printed before Maximum Crisis: Special Edition instead of “(Quick Effect)” will have “During either player’s [turn, Phase, Step]” in the Activation conditions or “(this is a Quick Effect)” at the end of the effect, these wordings work in the same way (See 505.3). 

506.4.	A Spell/Trap’s activated effect is not a Trigger effect if it’s currently face-down on the field (See 505.4).

506.5.	An activated effect is a Trigger effect if its Activation conditions include “During [the, your, your opponents] [Phase]” except for the Main Phase and Battle Phase, “At the start of [the, your, your opponents] Battle Phase” or “At the end of [the, your, your opponents] Battle Phase. This effects are Phase specific Trigger effects.

506.6.	An activated effect is a Trigger effect if its Activation conditions start with “When” or “If”.

506.7.	When a Trigger effect that starts with “When” meets its Activation conditions it can activate during the next Chain only if no more actions occur after the conditions have been met. Older cards with mandatory Trigger effects may start with “When”, they are treated as starting with “If” and so do not follow this rule but follow the next rule (506.8).

506.8.	When a Trigger effect that starts with “If” meets its Activation conditions it will remember that it can be activated until the next Chain even if other actions occur after the conditions have been met.

506.9.	If a Trigger effect meets its Activation condition multiple times before its able to activate, that effect can be activated for each time it met its Activation conditions.

•	Example: If a player controls a That’s 10! With the effect “Each time a card or effect is activated, except "That's 10!": You can place 1 Access Counter on this card (max. 10).” And they activate an Upstart Goblin and activate as Chain Link 2 a Chain Strike, after those two effects resolve that player can activate the effect of That’s 10! two times.

506.10.	If an action just finished and there is no Chain resolving and there are one or more Trigger effects that met their conditions (except for Phase specific Trigger effects) and can be activated, they can all be placed on a Chain in the following order.

506.10a.	First the mandatory Trigger effects of the turn player are placed on the Chain in any order they want. If there are no mandatory effects this step is skipped.

506.10b.	Second the mandatory Trigger effects of the non-turn player are placed on the Chain in any order they want. If there are no mandatory effects this step is skipped.

506.10c.	Third the turn player places any number of optional Trigger effects on the Chain in any order they want. Even if there are optional Trigger effect to be activated the turn player can decide to not activate some of those effect or even decide to not activate any effect. If there are no optional Trigger effects or the turn player activate no effects this step is skipped.

506.10d.	Fourth the non-turn player places any number of optional Trigger effects on the Chain in any order they want. Even if there are optional Trigger effect to be activated the non-turn player can decide to not activate some of those effect or even decide to not activate any effect. If there are no optional Trigger effects or the non-turn player activate no effects this step is skipped.

506.10e.	Lastly the normal rules for activating effects on the Chain begin applying and the player that has priority is the player who did not activate the last effect on the Chain, if no effects where activated priority goes to the turn player.

506.11.	 Phase specific Trigger effects can be activated at any point during that Phase or step as there is not a Chain being created or resolving and the player activating has priority.

506.12.	Phase specific Trigger effects can only be activated as Chain Link 1, if multiple effect can be activated they need to be activated in separate chains.

506.13.	If there is a mandatory Phase specific Trigger effect that has to be activated, it can be activated any time during that Phase or step and does not need to be the first action during that Phase or step. Before proceeding to the next Phase or step it needs to be activated and resolved even if both player agree to change Phase or step.

507. Resolving cards and effects

507.1.	After a Chain is created and both player pass priority once the Chain begins resolving. All effects in the chain are resolved starting from the last effect added to the Chain and going backwards. 

507.2.	After a Chain begins resolving no cards or effects can be activated until all effects on the Chain have finished resolving.

507.3.	To resolve an effect, the player activating it performs the actions written on the effect in the order they are written.

507.4.	If the resolution of an effect depends on a choice made at activation of the effect, the player activating must perform the actions based on the choice made at activation. If one or more actions that would need to be performed cannot be performed the player cannot change the choice at resolution even if performing another option would be possible.

507.5.	If the resolution of an effect depends on a choice not made at activation, the player activating chooses in the moment immediately before performing the action which option they want to choose. If one or more of those options cannot be performed the player cannot choose them and must choose an option that is possible to perform. If there are no options that can be perform the player chooses no option and this part of the effect is not performed.

507.6.	Sometime due to some actions happening between when an effect was activated and when it resolves, some actions of that effect may fail to be performed.

507.6a.	If an effect tries to destroy or tribute a card(s), the effect is considered to be successful if at least 1 card is destroyed or tributed. 

507.6b.	If an effect tries to move a card(s) from a zone or location to another zone or location, the effect is considered to be successful if at least 1 card is moved to the specified zone or location. 

507.6c.	If an effect that tries to destroy or tribute a card(s) specifies that “every”, “all”, “both” cards must be destroyed or tributed, its successful only if every card is destroyed or tributed.

507.6d.	If an effect that tries to move a card(s) from a zone or location to another zone or location specifies that “all”, “both”, “every” cards must be moved, its successful only if every card is moved to the specified zone or location.

507.6e.	If an effect that tries to move a card(s) from a location to the Deck moves those card(s) to the Extra Deck instead it is still treated as being successful.

507.6f.	If a card tries to increase or decrease LP/Level/Rank/Link Rating/ATK/DEF by 0 it is not treated as being increased or decreased and that effect is not successful.

507.7.	If an effect includes multiple actions, but one or more of those actions fail to be performed or the effect includes one or more optional actions and the player chooses to not perform them the other actions of the effect are performed using the following rules.

507.7a.	If 2 actions in an effect are united with the conjunction “also”, both actions are unrelated from each other. If the first action is not successfully performed the second action is still performed, if the second action is not successfully performed the first action is still performed. Both actions are treated as having occurred simultaneously, even if the actions are performed one after the other.

507.7b.	If 2 actions in an effect are united with the conjunction “also, after that”, both actions will be performed independently of each other. If the first action is not successfully performed the second action is still performed, if the second action is not successfully performed the first action is still performed. The actions are treated as having occurred sequentially and not at the same time.

507.7c.	If 2 actions in an effect are united with the conjunction “and”, both action must be successfully performed to perform those actions. If the first action is not successfully performed, the second action is not performed, if the second action is not successfully performed the first action is not performed. Both actions are treated as having occurred simultaneously, even if the actions are performed one after the other.

507.7d.	If 2 actions in an effect are united with the conjunction “and if you do”, the first action must be successfully performed in order to perform the second one. If the first action is not successfully performed the second one cannot be performed, if the second action cannot be performed the first one is still performed. Both actions are treated as having occurred simultaneously, even if the actions are performed one after the other.

507.7e.	If 2 actions in an effect are united with the conjunction “Then”, the first action must be successfully performed in order to perform the second one. If the first action is not successfully performed the second one cannot be performed, if the second action is not successfully performed the first one is still performed. The actions are treated as having occurred sequentially and not at the same time.

507.7f.	If an effect that includes an optional action(s) is activated and the player activating it chooses to not apply the optional actions(s), the effect is stopped immediately and no further part of the effect are performed.

508. Non-Activated effects

508.1.	Non-Activated effects are effects that do not need to be activated to be used. They either apply continuously or can be applied without being activated.

508.2.	Non-Activated effect include Continuous effects and Unclassified effects.

508.3.	Unclassified effects will be divided in the following categories: Substitution effects, Non-Activated Ignition effects, effect that can apply a permanent effect on themselves while not on the field.

509. Continuous effects

509.1.	Continuous effects are effects that modify the characteristics of cards, the control of cards, affects a player(s) or the rules of the game that applied all the time or while a condition is met. 

509.2.	Continuous effects apply only while the card is on the field.

509.3.	If multiple Continuous effects are applying at the same time they apply in the order they were Summoned, resolved or put in the location where their effect is applied.

509.4.	Continuous effects that set the ATK and/or DEF of a monster to a specific value always apply before effects that increase or decrease ATK and/or DEF by some value.

509.5.	If a Continuous effect applies only when a condition is met it is not applied after other effects that were Summoned, resolved or were put in the location where their effect before this effect applied and after the card that has this effect was Summoned, resolved or put in the location where their effect is applied.

•	Example: During their turn a player controls a face-up Obsidim, the Ashened City with the Continuous effect “Face-up Special Summoned monsters your opponent controls become Pyro during your turn only.” And the opponent controls a face-up Zombie World with the Continuous effect “All monsters on the field and in the GYs become Zombie monsters.“ that was activated after Obsidim. Since Zombie World is applied last all monsters on the field become Zombie monsters even if Obsidim is applying. If that player passes the turn and so does the opponent, the Special Summoned monsters on the opponent’s field will still be Zombies even after Obsidim stopped applying during the opponent’s turn and started reapplying during their turn.

509.6.	A Continuous effect that sets the ATK and/or DEF of itself to a specific value based on information of its Summon will not apply if it’s negated also if the effect later stops being negated it will set the ATK and/or DEF to 0 instead of the previous value.

•	Example: A player controls a Cyber Eltanin with the Continuous effect “This card's ATK/DEF become the number of monsters banished for its Special Summon x 500” that was Summoned banishing 2 monsters, its ATK/DEF is currently 1000. If a card effect negates the effects of Eltanin, its ATK/DEF becomes 0. If that card effect stops applying the ATK/DEF of Eltanin remains 0 and does not return to 1000. 
509.7.	If a non-Continuous effect that changes/sets a property of a card is applied to a card that is already modified by one or more Continuous effects, those Continuous effects stop applying until the non-Continuous effect stops applying.
Ruling22618

•	Example: A player controls a Chimeratech Fortress Dragon with the Continuous effect “The original ATK of this card becomes 1000 x the number of materials used for its Special Summon” that was Summoned using 2 monsters as material, its ATK is 2000. If Life Hack is activated with the effect that says “Target 1 face-up monster on the field; any damage your opponent takes this turn is halved, also that monster's ATK becomes equal to your opponent's current LP until the end of this turn.” targeting the Chimeratech its attack becomes equal to the opponent’s LP. After the turn ends and Life Hack stops applying the ATK of Chimeratech returns to 2000.

510. Substitution Effects

510.1.	Substitution Effect are effect that can be applied when an action would be perform to replace or partially replace that action with another.

510.2.	Non-Activated Effects that use the word ”instead” are Substitution Effects.

510.3.	Substitution Effects can be applied at any point the action it wants to substitute would happen, even while activating or resolving a card or effect.

510.4.	If a player can apply multiple Substitution Effects to the same action, that player cannot choose to apply more than one but they can choose to apply none.

510.5.	To apply a Substitution Effect all part of the effect must be able to be performed, if the entire effect cannot be applied at the time the action would occur the effect cannot be applied.

510.6.	A player is never forced to apply a Substitution Effect.

511. Non-Activated Ignition Effects

511.1.	Non-Activated Ignition Effects are effects that can be applied by the turn player during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority. It does not activate nor start a Chain.

511.2.	Effects that can be applied when a condition is met are not Non-Activated Ignition Effects.

511.3.	To apply a Non-Activated Ignition Effect all part of the effect must be able to be performed, if the entire effect cannot be applied a player cannot attempt to apply it.

6. Summons

600. General

600.1.	The different Summons are: Normal/Tribute Summon, Flip Summon, Special Summon, Fusion Summon, Link Summon, Pendulum Summon, Ritual Summon, Synchro Summon and Xyz Summon.

600.2.	All Summon that happen outside of a chain resolving create a Response Window where card or effects can be activated called the Summon Response Window.

600.3.	In addition to the Summon Response Window there is an additional Response Window that happened while the Monster is being Summoned called the Summon Negation Window.

600.3a.	A Summon Negation Window doesn’t occur if the Summon is performed while a Chain is resolving.

600.3b.	An effect that performs a Summon via game mechanics will cause a Summon Negation Window if it was Chain Link 1 in a Chain. A card or effect will perform a Summon via game mechanics if it specifies that the Summon will occur “immediately after this [card/effect] resolves”.

600.3c.	During the Summon Negation Window the Monster being Summoned is not treated as being in any Zone or Location. The Zone where the monster would be Summoned cannot be used to Summon another monster even if the monster is yet to be Summoned.

600.3d.	A Monster being Summoned cannot activate its effects, its continuous effects do not apply and its substitution effects cannot be applied.

600.3e.	If both player pass priority without activating a card or an effect the Summon Negation ends and the Monster is Summoned, after which the Summon Response Window happens.

600.3f.	The first effect activated during a Summon Negation Window must be an effect that would negate that Summon.

600.3g.	After the first Chain Link all other cards and effects can be activated.

600.3h.	A card or effect can negate a Summon if it can be activated when the monster “would be […] Summoned” and if it uses the term negate.

600.3i.	After the Chain resolves if the Summon is not negated the Monster is immediately Summoned and no other card or effect can be activated.

600.3j.	If the Summon is negated the Monster is sent to the Graveyard, no Summon Response Window occurs and the Duel proceeds as normal.
601. Normal/Tribute Summon

601.1.	A Normal/Tribute Summon is the process of Summoning a Monster from the hand, or the Monster Zone in the case of a Gemini Monster in a Monster Zone treated as a Normal Monster, to a Main Monster Zone.

601.2.	A Monster that is Normal/Tribute Summoned can only be placed in an unoccupied Main Monster Zone and not in an Extra Monster Zone.

601.3.	The turn player can perform a Normal/Tribute Summon during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

601.4.	To perform a Normal Summon of a Level 4 or lower Monster the player performing it places that Monster in face-up attack position from their hand to an unoccupied and usable Main Monster on their field. This is not considered a Tribute Summon.

601.5.	To perform a Normal Summon of a Level 5 or 6 Monster the player performing it Tributes 1 Monster they control, then they place the Monster being Normal Summoned in face-up attack position. This is considered a Tribute Summon.

601.6.	To perform a Normal Summon of a Level 7 or higher Monster the player performing it Tributes 2 Monster they control, then they place the Monster being Normal Summoned in face-up attack position, this is considered a Tribute Summon.

601.7.	While performing a Tribute Summon, tributing and Summoning the Monster happen sequentially one after the other, not simultaneously.

601.8.	Each player can only perform 1 Normal/Tribute Summon each turn unless an effect changes that number.

601.7a.	The number of Normal/Tribute Summons is shared with the number of Normal/Tribute Sets.

601.7b.	If a player already Normal/Tribute Summoned or Normal/Tribute Set a number of times equal to the possible amount that they can in that turn, that player can neither Normal/Tribute Summon or Normal/Tribute Set during that turn.

601.7c.	Some effects change the number of Normal/Tribute Summons a player can perform in a turn.

601.7d.	If a card or effect states in its card text “You can conduct [n] Normal Summons/Sets this turn, not just 1”, then that is an effect that changes the number of Normal/Tribute Summons possible in a turn.

601.7e.	A card or effect that changes the number of Normal/Tribute Summons in a turn allows the player to perform a Tribute Summon even if the text doesn’t specify so in the card text.

601.7f.	If multiple cards or effects that change the number of Normal/Tribute Summons in a turn are activated by the same player in the same turn, the number of Normal/Tribute Summons that player can make is equal to the largest of the 2. A player cannot activate multiple cards that would set the number of Normal/Tribute Summons they are allowed to perform to the same number.
DoubleSummon

601.7g.	If a card or effect that changes the number of Normal/Tribute Summons in a turn is activated after a player has already performed Normal/Tribute Summons during that turn, the Normal/Tribute Summons performed before the effect are counted towards the new value.

•	Example: if a player performs a Normal/Tribute Summon and then activates Double Summon which reads “You can conduct 2 Normal Summons/Sets this turn, not just 1.”, that player cannot conduct 2 more Normal/Tribute Summons but just 1 as they already performed 1.

601.7h.	Some effect make a player gain an extra Normal/Tribute Summon in a turn.

601.7i.	If a card or effect states in its card text “you can [Normal/Tribute] Summon 1 […] monster [in Attack Position] during your Main Phase, in addition to your Normal Summon/Set. (You can only gain this effect once per turn.)”, then that is an effect that allows a player to perform an additional Normal/Tribute Summon during that turn.

601.7j.	A card or effect that allows a player to perform an additional Normal/Tribute Summon does not interfere with the number of Normal/Tribute Summons that a player can perform during a turn but just give an extra Normal/Tribute Summon that can be performed at any time.

601.7k.	A player using a card or effect that allows a player to perform an additional Normal/Tribute Summon in a turn can decide whether to use a standard Normal/Tribute Summon or the additional Normal/Tribute Summon. They function both in the same way.

601.7m.	If multiple effect would make a player gain an additional Normal/Tribute Summon that player gain only 1 additional Normal/Tribute Summon.

601.7n.	A Normal/Tribute Summoned gained by an effect that give an additional Normal/Tribute Summon cannot be used to perform a Normal/Tribute Set but only to perform a Normal/Tribute Summon.

601.7p.	If a card or effect that allows player to perform an additional Normal/Tribute Summon states in its text that it performs a “Normal Summon”, a player activating that card or effect would be able to perform an extra Normal Summon or a Tribute Summon.

601.7q.	If a card or effect that allows player to perform an additional Normal/Tribute Summon states in its text that it performs a “Tribute Summon”, a player activating that card or effect would only be able to perform an extra Tribute Summon and not a Normal Summon.

601.7r.	Some effect allows a player to perform a Normal/Tribute Summon immediately following a Chain Link resolving.

601.7s.	If a card of effect states in its text “immediately after this effect resolves, you can [Normal/Tribute] Summon 1 […] monster.”, then that is an effect that makes a player perform an additional Normal/Tribute Summon immediately after that effect resolves. 

601.7t.	A player may Normal/Tribute Summon any number of times with cards or effects that perform a Normal/Tribute Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves during both players turns.

601.7u.	Normal/Tribute Summons made by cards and effects that perform a Normal/Tribute Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves do not count toward the number of Normal/Tribute Summons that that player can perform in a turn or the additional Normal/Tribute Summon gained by card or effects that allow the player to perform an additional Normal/Tribute Summon.

601.7v.	If a card or effect that performs a Normal/Tribute Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves is activated as Chain Link 1 resolves the Normal/Tribute Summon performed will create a Summon Negation Window and a Summon Response Window. (See Summon Negation Window Summons00.4)

601.7w.	If a card or effect that performs a Normal/Tribute Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves is activated as Chain Link 2 resolves the Normal/Tribute Summon performed will not create a Summon Negation Window or a Summon Response Window.

601.7x.	A player made to Normal/Tribute Summon a Monster by a card or effect that performs a Normal/Tribute Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves cannot perform a Normal/Tribute Set but can only perform a Normal/Tribute Summon.

601.7y.	If a card or effect that performs a Normal/Tribute Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves states in its text that it performs a “Normal Summon”, a player activating that card or effect can either perform a Normal Summon or a Tribute Summon.

601.7z.	If a card or effect that performs a Normal/Tribute Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves states in its text that it performs a “Tribute Summon”, a player activating that card or effect must perform a Tribute Summon and not a Normal Summon.

601.9.	A player cannot attempt to perform a Normal/Tribute Summon if they cannot finish performing it the moment they initiate it.

601.10.	A player can perform a Normal/Tribute Summon only if they have not used all available Normal/Tribute Summons they’re allowed during that turn.

601.11.	A player can perform a Normal/Tribute Summon only during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

601.12.	Monsters cannot be Normal Summoned to an Extra Monster Zone even if all Main Monsters are occupied or unusable.

601.13.	A player performing a Tribute Summon can place the Monster being Tribute Summoned in the same Main Monster Zone as a monster tribute for that Summon.

601.14.	If all Main Monster Zones of a player are occupied or unusable that player cannot perform a Normal Summon.

601.15.	If all Main Monster Zones of a player are occupied or unusable that player can perform a Tribute Summon as long as they Tribute a Monster in their Main Monster Zone to do so.

601.16.	If a card or effect prevents a Monster in a player hand from being Summoned and the removal of a Monster(s) on the field would allow that Monster to be Summoned that player cannot Tribute Summon the Monster in their hand by Tributing the Monster(s) on the field.

601.17.	A Normal Summon is also considered a Tribute Summon if a Monster was tributed to perform it.

601.18.	Some cards, effects or Summoning conditions change the number if tributes required to Normal/Tribute Summon a Monster. To perform a Normal Summon of a Monster that has the number of Tributes the player performing it Tributes the number of monster required from Monsters they control, then they place the Monster being Normal Summoned in face-up attack position. This is considered a Tribute Summon.

601.19.	If a Level 5 or higher is Normal Summoned without tributing any Monsters due to a card, effect or a Summoning condition, no Monster is tribute and that Monster is Normal Summoned. This is not considered a Tribute Summon.

602. Flip Summon

602.1.	A Flip Summon is the process of Flipping a Monster in a Monster Zone from face-down defense position to face-up attack position.

602.2.	While Flip Summoning a Monster, the player performing the Flip Summon cannot change the Zone the Monster is positioned in.

602.3.	Flip Summons count as manually changing the position of a Monster, so a player cannot change the position of a Monster the turn it was Flip Summoned and they cannot Flip Summon a Monster the turn its battle position 

602.4.	The same Monster cannot be Flip Summoned more than once in a turn.

602.5.	A Monster cannot be Flip Summoned during a turn in which it was Summoned or Normal/Tribute Set, it declared an attack or his position was manually changed.

602.6.	A player can perform Flip Summon only during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

602.7.	During the Summon Negation Window of a Flip Summon the Monster being Flip Summoned is not considered to be on the field.

603. Special Summon

603.1.	A Special Summon is any Summon that is not a Normal/Tribute Summon or a Flip Summon, namely: Fusion Summon, Link Summon, Pendulum Summon, Ritual Summon, Synchro Summon, Xyz Summon, Summons of Special Summon Monsters and Summons from card effects that state “Special Summon”.

603.2.	Don’t know what else to add for now, maybe remove.

604. Fusion Summon

604.1.	A Fusion Summon is the process of Summoning a Fusion Monster from the Extra Deck to a Monster Zone by a card or effect that performs a “Fusion Summon”.

604.2.	A Fusion Monster being Fusion Summoned can be placed in any Monster Zone.

604.3.	A Fusion Summon can only be performed by a card effect.

604.4.	When resolving an effect to Fusion Summon the player performing the Summon choses a Fusion Monster that can be Summoned at that time to be Fusion Summoned, after that, the Fusion Material mentioned on that Fusion Monster are sent from the location(s) stated in that Fusion Monster’s effect to the location(s) stated on that Fusion Monster. Then the Fusion Monster is Fusion Summoned to any unoccupied and usable Monster Zone.

•	Example: a player activates Polymerization with the effect “Fusion Summon 1 Fusion Monster from your Extra Deck, using monsters from your hand or field as material.” and they have Monster Egg in their hand, Hinotama Soul on their Monster Zone and another Hinotama Soul in their Deck. When Polymerization resolves that player choses to Fusion Summon Charubin the Fire Knight that has the materials “"Monster Egg" + "Hinotama Soul"”, they must send the Monster Egg that is in their hand and the Hinotama Soul that is on their Monster Zone to their Graveyard. They cannot Send the Monster Egg in their hand and the Hinotama Soul in their Deck to the Graveyard to perform the Fusion Summon. After the Fusion Materials are sent to the Graveyard the Fusion Monster is Special Summon to a Monster Zone.

604.4.	A Fusion Summon can Summon a Monster to any unoccupied and usable Main Monster Zone and any unoccupied and usable Extra Monster Zone.

604.5.	If during the resolution of a card or effect that performs a Fusion Summon the Fusion Material never do not change location, the Fusion Monster will not be Summoned. If this happens the Fusion Summon did not happen.

604.6.	If during the resolution of a card or effect that performs a Fusion Summon the Fusion Material get sent to the wrong location due to a card or effect the Fusion Monster is still Summoned.

604.7.	If all Monster Zones of a player are occupied or unusable that player cannot activate an effect to perform a Fusion Summon unless that Fusion Summon can use Monsters on the field as Fusion Materials and that player has a Fusion Monster in their Extra Deck that can be Fusion Summoned using that effect by using as Fusion Material at least 1 Monster in their Monster Zone.

•	Example: a player controls 5 Sheep Tokens in their Main Monster Zones, a Flame Swordsman in the Extra Monster Zone and they have Celtic Guardian and Elemental HERO Clayman in their hand. That player can activate Polymerization with the effect “Fusion Summon 1 Fusion Monster from your Extra Deck, using monsters from your hand or field as material.” To Fusion Summon a Garura, Wings of Resonant Life with the materials “2 monsters with the same Type and Attribute, but different names” using the Flame Swordsman in their Monster Zone and either the Celtic Guardian or the Elemental HERO Clayman in their hand. That player cannot activate Invocation with the effect "Fusion Summon 1 Fusion Monster from your Extra Deck, using monsters from your hand as material” even if they have the correct materials in hand.

604.8.	If a card or effect prevents a Fusion Monster of a player from being Summoned and the removal of a Monster(s) on the field would allow that Fusion Monster to be Summoned that player cannot activate a card or effect that performs a Fusion Summon to Fusion Summon that Fusion Monster by using those Monster(s) on the field as Fusion Material. (Example TODO maybe)

604.9.	A Fusion Pendulum Monster that is face-up in the Extra Deck cannot be Fusion Summoned.

604.10.	If a card or effect that performs a Fusion Summon states in its card text that it can Fusion Summon a Fusion Monster that mentions a specific card(s), to Fusion Summon using that card or effect that specific card(s) must be used as Fusion Material.

•	Example: the card Ultimate Fusion has the effect: “Fusion Summon 1 Fusion Monster from your Extra Deck that mentions "Blue-Eyes White Dragon" or "Blue-Eyes Ultimate Dragon" as material”. To Fusion Summon Dragon Master Magia with the materials “"Blue-Eyes Ultimate Dragon" or 3 "Blue-Eyes" monsters + 1 "Chaos" or "Black Luster Soldier" Ritual Monster” using Ultimate Fusion a player must use Blue-Eyes Ultimate Dragon as Fusion Material and not 3 “Blue-Eyes” Monster.

604.11.	If when resolving an effect that performs a Fusion Summon no Fusion Monster is able to be Fusion Summoned no Fusion Materials are moved and no Monster is Summoned. If this happens the Fusion Summon did not happen.

604.12.	If a player is required by a card or effect to perform a Fusion Summon and they have 1 or more valid Fusion Monster to Fusion Summon with that card or effect, they must Fusion Summon 1 of those Monsters.

604.13.	All Monsters can be used as Fusion Material including but not limited to: Link Monsters, Pendulum Monsters, Xyz Monsters and Token Monsters.

604.14.	Face-down defense position Monsters can be used as Material for a Fusion Summon but only if they are controlled by the player performing the Fusion Summon.

605. Link Summon

605.1.	A Link Summon is the process of Summoning a Link Monster from the Extra Deck to a Monster Zone by sending the Link materials from the field to the Graveyard.

605.2.	A Link Monster that is Link Summoned can only be placed in an Extra Monster Zone or to a Monster Zone you control that a Link Monster points to.

605.3.	A player can Link Summon a Link Monster to a Zone they control that is pointed to by a Link Monster controlled by their opponent.

605.4.	The turn player can perform a Link Summon during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

605.5.	To perform a Link Summon the player performing the Link Summon chooses a valid Link Monster in their Extra Deck to Link Summon, after that they send a number of Monsters from their field to the Graveyard depending on the Materials of the Link Monster being Summoned and its LINK Rating. Then the Link Monster is placed in any valid Monster Zone.

605.6.	The amount of Monsters used as Material for a Link Summon must be equal to the LINK Rating of the Monster being Link Summoned. A Link Monster used as Material for a Link Summon counts as either 1 monster or an amount exactly equal to its LINK Rating, the player performing the Link Summon can choose which of the 2 is applied.

605.7.	If the Materials of a Link Summons are not sent to the Graveyard because of an effect but instead get sent to another location the Link Monster is still Summoned.

605.8.	A player can Link Summon to an Extra Monster Zone while they already control a Monster in the other Extra Monster Zone if doing so would create an Extra-Link. (See Extra-Link AHHHH)

605.9.	If all Monster Zones of a player are occupied or unusable that player can perform a Link Summon as long as they use a Monster in a Monster Zone that a Link Monster can be Link Summoned to as Link Material.

605.10.	If a card or effect prevents a Link Monster of a player from being Summoned and the removal of a Monster(s) on the field would allow that Link Monster to be Summoned that player cannot try to performs a Link Summon to Summon that Link Monster by using those Monster(s) on the field as Link Material.

606. Pendulum Summon

606.1.	A Pendulum Summon is the process of Special Summoning any number of Monsters from a player hand or face-up Extra-Deck to the Monster Zones depending on the Pendulum Monsters placed in the Pendulum Zones.

606.2.	A player can only perform 1 Pendulum Summon per turn.

606.2a.	Four cards (“Moissa Knight, the Comet General”, “Zefraath”, “Extra Pendulum” and “Soul Pendulum”), allow a player to perform an additional Pendulum Summon during a turn.

606.2b.	If a card states in its text “you can conduct 1 Pendulum Summon of a […] monster(s) during your Main Phase this turn, in addition to your Pendulum Summon. (You can only gain this effect once per turn.)”, then it’s an effect that allows a player to perform an additional Pendulum Summon.

606.2c.	A player using a card or effect that allows a player to perform an additional Pendulum Summon in a turn can decide whether to use a standard Pendulum Summon or the additional Pendulum Summon. They function both in the same way.

606.2d.	If multiple effect would make a player gain an additional Pendulum Summon that player gain only 1 additional Pendulum Summon.

606.2e.	Two cards (“Pendulum Evolution” and “Pendulum Encore”), make a player perform a Pendulum Summon immediately after their effect resolves.

606.2f.	If a card of effect states in its text “immediately after this effect resolves, you can Pendulum Summon a […] Monster(s).”, then that is an effect that makes a player perform an additional Normal/Tribute Summon immediately after that effect resolves.

606.2g.	A player may Pendulum Summon any number of times with cards or effects that perform a Pendulum Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves during both players turns. 

606.2h.	Pendulum Summons made by cards and effects that perform a Pendulum Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves do not count toward as the one Pendulum Summon that a player can perform in a turn or the additional Pendulum Summon gained by card or effects that allow the player to perform an additional Pendulum Summon.

606.2i.	If a card or effect that performs a Pendulum Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves is activated as Chain Link 1 resolves the Pendulum Summon performed will create a Summon Negation Window and a Summon Response Window. (See Summon Negation Window Summons00.4)

606.2j.	If a card or effect that performs a Pendulum Summon immediately after that card or effect resolves is activated as Chain Link 2 resolves the Pendulum Summon performed will not create a Summon Negation Window or a Summon Response Window.

606.3.	A player can only conduct a Pendulum Summon if both of they have a Pendulum Monster in both Pendulum Zones.

606.4.	The turn player can perform a Pendulum Summon during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

606.5.	To perform a Pendulum Summon the player performing the Pendulum Summon chooses any number of Monster in their hand and face-up Extra Deck and places them on their field.

606.6.	Only Monsters with a Level can be Pendulum Summoned. Monsters without a Level such as Link Monsters and Xyz Monster cannot be Pendulum Summoned.

606.7.	The Level of the Monster being Summoned in a Pendulum Summon must be between the value of the scales of the 2 Pendulum Monsters in the Pendulum Zones of the player performing the Pendulum Summon, A Monster that has a Level that is equal to the value of a scale cannot be Pendulum Summoned.

606.8.	A Monster being Pendulum Summoned from the hand can only be placed in a Main Monster Zone.

606.9.	A Pendulum Monster being Pendulum Summoned from the face-up Extra Deck can only be placed in an Extra Monster Zone or a Zone a Link Monster point to.

606.10.	A player cannot Pendulum Summon a Monster from their face-up Extra Deck to an Extra Monster Zone if they already control a Monster in the other Extra Monster Zone.

606.11.	Pendulum Extra Deck Monster in Extra Deck face-up cannot be Pendulum Summoned if they were not Properly Special Summoned.

606.12.	If a Pendulum Summon is negated the Summon of all Monsters being Pendulum Summoned Is negated.

606.13.	All the Monster Summoned during a Pendulum Summon are Summoned simultaneously.

607. Synchro Summon

607.1.	A Synchro Summon is the process of Summoning a Synchro Monster from the Extra Deck to a Monster Zone by sending the Synchro Materials to the Graveyard.

607.2.	A Synchro Monster being Synchro Summoned can be placed in any Monster Zone.

607.3.	The turn player can perform a Synchro Summon during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

607.4.	To perform a Synchro Summon the player performing the Synchro Summon chooses a valid Synchro Monster in their Extra Deck to Synchro Summon. After that they send a number of Monsters from their field to the Graveyard depending on the Materials of the Synchro Monster being Summoned and its Level. Then the Synchro Monster is placed in any unoccupied and usable Monster Zone.

607.5.	Only Monsters with a Level can be used as Synchro Materials of a Synchro Summon. Monsters without a Level such as Link Monsters and Xyz Monster cannot be used.

607.6.	The Sum of the Level of the Monsters used as Synchro Material for the Synchro Summon of a Synchro Monster must be equal to the Level of the Synchro Monster being Summoned.

607.7.	If the Materials of a Synchro Summons are not sent to the Graveyard because of a card or effect but instead get sent to another location the Synchro Monster is still Summoned.

607.8.	If all Monster Zones of a player are occupied or unusable that player can perform a Synchro Summon as long as they use a Monster they control as Synchro Material.

607.9.	If a card or effect prevents a Synchro Monster of a player from being Summoned and the removal of a Monster(s) on the field would allow that Synchro Monster to be Summoned that player cannot try to performs a Synchro Summon to Summon that Synchro Monster by using those Monster(s) on the field as Synchro Material.

608. Xyz Summon

608.1.	An Xyz Summon is the process of Summoning a Xyz Monster from the Extra Deck to a Monster Zone by using monsters as Xyz Materials.

608.2.	An Xyz Monster being Xyz Summoned can be placed in any Monster Zone.

608.3.	The turn player can perform a Xyz Summon during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority.

608.4.	To perform an Xyz Summon the player performing the Xyz Summon chooses a valid Xyz Monster in their Extra Deck to Xyz Summon. After that they move a number of Monsters on their field to one of their unoccupied and usable Monster Zone stacked on each other depending on the Materials of the Xyz Monster being Summoned and its Rank. Then the Xyz Monster is placed in on top of those cards in the same Zone.

608.5.	Only Monsters with a Level can be used as Xyz Materials of an Xyz Summon unless specified in the materials. Monsters without a Level such as Link Monsters and Xyz Monster cannot be used.

608.6.	The monsters used as Xyz Material are not considered to have left the field even though the monsters are not on the field.

608.7.	If all Monster Zones of a player are occupied or unusable that player can perform a Xyz Summon as long as they use a Monster they control as Xyz Material.

608.8.	If a card or effect prevents an Xyz Monster of a player from being Summoned and the removal of a Monster(s) on the field would allow that Xyz Monster to be Summoned that player cannot try to performs an Xyz Summon to Summon that Xyz Monster by using those Monster(s) on the field as Xyz Material.

7. Special Actions

700. General

700.1.	A Special Action is an action a player can perform that is not activating a card or effect and performing a Summon. That player can only perform them during their Main Phase if there isn’t a chain forming or resolving, it’s not during a response window and they have priority. It does not activate nor start a Chain.

700.2.	The Special Actions a player can perform are: Setting a Spell/Trap Card, changing the position of a monster from face-up attack to face-up defense and vice versa and Normal/Tribute Setting a Monster.
